HEADLINE: Government re-evaluates petrol subsidies for the high-income group

By AISHHWARYA LAKSHMI

KUALA LUMPUR: Prime Minister Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim said that the government will soon finalise a more comprehensive fuel subsidy proposal for the high-income group in Malaysia.

	Anwar said the proposal is being reviewed by the National Economic Action Council’s (NEAC) Crisis Management Task Force, currently led by Tan Sri Mohd Hassan Marican.

	According to Anwar, who is also the Finance Minister, the table was proposed a month ago by the task force with discussions being held on whether it should involve T5, T10, T15 or T20 income groups. 

	“In principle, we agree, but we want to ensure it does not affect the upper-middle class. They are working on it, and I hope it will be finalised soon,” he told the reporters on the sidelines of an event held at Universiti Malaya.

	Economist Ahmed Razman Abdul Latiff has previously said that the exclusion of the T20 group from the subsidy programme can help the government save up to RM1.5 billion a month.

	He said that instead of removing the T20 group from the BUDI95 programme entirely, he suggested giving them a lower monthly quota compared to the other groups.

	Recently, Umno Youth chief Datuk Dr Muhamad Akmal Saleh also proposed that the government redirect fuel subsidies to the B40 and M40 groups, who are more affected by the rise of living costs. 

	“In the current economic situation, we need to re-rationalise subsidies and implement them in a very targeted manner to those who really need them, including by re-channelling fuel subsidies from T20 to B40 and M40,” he said. 

	The proposal was among the 25 main resolutions discussed in the RIMBUN 2.0 programme which focused on the country’s economic sovereignty.

	Currently, RON95 petrol is subsidised at RM1.99 a litre for all Malaysians with a valid driving licence, subject to 200 litres a month. 
